https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rmisra/news-category-dataset

About Dataset
Context
** Please cite the dataset using the BibTex provided in one of the following sections if you are using it in your research, thank you! **

This dataset contains around 210k news headlines from 2012 to 2022 from HuffPost. This is one of the biggest news datasets and can serve as a benchmark for a variety of computational linguistic tasks. HuffPost stopped maintaining an extensive archive of news articles sometime after this dataset was first collected in 2018, so it is not possible to collect such a dataset in the present day. Due to changes in the website, there are about 200k headlines between 2012 and May 2018 and 10k headlines between May 2018 and 2022.

Content
Each record in the dataset consists of the following attributes:

category: category in which the article was published.
headline: the headline of the news article.
authors: list of authors who contributed to the article.
link: link to the original news article.
short_description: Abstract of the news article.
date: publication date of the article.
There are a total of 42 news categories in the dataset. The top-15 categories and corresponding article counts are as follows:

POLITICS: 35602

WELLNESS: 17945

ENTERTAINMENT: 17362

TRAVEL: 9900

STYLE & BEAUTY: 9814

PARENTING: 8791

HEALTHY LIVING: 6694

QUEER VOICES: 6347

FOOD & DRINK: 6340

BUSINESS: 5992

COMEDY: 5400

SPORTS: 5077

BLACK VOICES: 4583

HOME & LIVING: 4320

PARENTS: 3955

Citation
If you're using this dataset for your work, please cite the following articles:

Citation in text format:

1. Misra, Rishabh. "News Category Dataset." arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.11429 (2022).
2. Misra, Rishabh and Jigyasa Grover. "Sculpting Data for ML: The first act of Machine Learning." ISBN 9798585463570 (2021).
Citation in BibTex format:

@article{misra2022news,
  title={News Category Dataset},
  author={Misra, Rishabh},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.11429},
  year={2022}
}
@book{misra2021sculpting,
  author = {Misra, Rishabh and Grover, Jigyasa},
  year = {2021},
  month = {01},
  pages = {},
  title = {Sculpting Data for ML: The first act of Machine Learning},
  isbn = {9798585463570}
}
Please link to rishabhmisra.github.io/publications as the source of this dataset. Thanks!

Acknowledgements
This dataset was collected from HuffPost.

Inspiration
Can you categorize news articles based on their headlines and short descriptions?

Do news articles from different categories have different writing styles?

A classifier trained on this dataset could be used on a free text to identify the type of language being used.

Want to contribute your own datasets?
If you are interested in learning how to collect high-quality datasets for various ML tasks and the overall importance of data in the ML ecosystem, consider reading my book Sculpting Data for ML.

Other datasets
Please also checkout the following datasets collected by me:

News Headlines Dataset For Sarcasm Detection

Clothing Fit Dataset for Size Recommendation

IMDB Spoiler Dataset

Politifact Fact Check Dataset


View less
Usability
10.00

License
Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0)

Expected update frequency
Annually

Tags
News
Classification
NLP
Deep Learning
Linguistics
News_Category_Dataset_v3.json(87.3 MB)
About this file

Suggest Edits
The file contains 210,294 records between 2012 and 2022. Each json record contains the following attributes:

category: Category article belongs to

headline: Headline of the article

authors: Person authored the article

link: Link to the post

short_description: Short description of the article

date: Date the article was published

This preview is truncated due to the large file size. The number of JSON items and individual items might be might be truncated. Create a Notebook or download this file to see the full content.

Download

Create Notebook
"root":{6 items
"link":string"https://www.huffpost.com/entry/covid-boosters-uptake-us_n_632d719ee4b087fae6feaac9"
"headline":string"Over 4 Million Americans Roll Up Sleeves For Omicron-Targeted COVID Boosters"
"category":string"U.S. NEWS"
"short_description":string"Health experts said it is too early to predict whether demand would match up with the 171 million doses of the new boosters the U.S. ordered for the fall."
"authors":string"Carla K. Johnson, AP"
"date":string"2022-09-23"
}
